I think she wanted that in her mother's
eyes that she would be regarded as
someone important you know like I said
my father had different factions of the
Church of Satan where he had his
celebrity friends and his Pro you know
import so-called important people that
he fraternized with that were he
considered his friends and by aligning
herself with this kind of flamboyant
Entertainer man I think she really hoped
that she from her own mother that she
would get some sort of
[Music]
respect hello
everybody today I'm speaking with Zena
Shrek whose original name was LA and who
is the daughter of Anton L who was the
most famous Satanist of the last half of
the 20th century and so she grew up with
the man who established the modern
Church of Satan uh very intelligent man
very charismatic very creative uh very
Macallan Psychopathic
manipulative uh a Carne Barker an
admirer of PT Barnum a man for whom
there was a sucker born every minute a
man who deeply believed that the world
was an act and that life was a carnival
and
that if you had the wool pulled over
your eyes to his benefit then so much
the worse for you and I suppose as well
you deserve it for being so foolish and
and gullible uh that's the Eternal
self-justification of the carne Barker
psychopath and Zena grew up in that
household
as by all appearances a
dutiful woman young woman committed to
the well-being of her father to the
degree where in the 1980s when a panic
about satanic practice arose in the
general population quite a widespread
panic she felt compelled to defend
defend him and took on the mantle of
High Priestess of the satanic church for
5 years before coming to the realization
that she had
been immersed in a pack of lies in a Web
of Lies
before understanding as a consequence of
the promptings of her conscience that
she was participating in something that
was not what it claimed to be and in a
life that wasn't what she thought it was
and was also called by promptings you
might say of a genuinely religious
nature to forswear the church to leave
her father and to set out what would you
say into the desert of her own own um
doubt and so that's what we talk about
the crazy 1970s The Hangover from the
hedonistic Bliss of The Summer of Love
hippies the Dark Side of let it all hang
out and tune in turn on and drop out
right the catastrophic underbelly of
immature Hedonism right and uh well who
better to guide us through that absolute
bloody catastrophic mess than the
daughter of the Prime saintness from the
1960s and the
1970s join
us Zena thank you very much for agreeing
to talk with me and everyone today uh I
guess I'm I'm curious you've had a
very strange life and uh I I want to
describe that I guess I'm curious to
First for myself before we delve into
any of the details what what do you
think we could accomplish with this
conversation what's what's the utility
of the conversation as far as you're
concerned oh well that's a good question
well it's also a big
question uh I
suppose in the bigger
picture
uh since I I don't normally break apart
bits of my past to discuss it only comes
up anecdotally in relation to where I am
today I always prefer to live in the
present um that's in accordance with my
Buddhist practices um but if I were to
think of an overall uh accomplishment of
what we get across today I think it
might be to
reassure those who might be watching who
live in difficult
situations uh or difficult families or
really
dysfunctional uh conditions
life that uh they should not give up
hope and that there is a way out and to
always remember that everything is
impermanent if we practice patience and
diligence in trying to find our
own course that is in alignment with who
we truly
are um I think that the the only thing I
really have to offer because everybody
has adversity in their life uh but in my
case maybe the only thing I have to
offer is that um people who are raised
with certain conditioning or certain um
you know belief systems that through
that they've learned through childhood
that they really never had an
opportunity to qu question or they even
if they did question it they always felt
they had to defend it on behalf of their
parents whatever that may be whether
it's religion or politics or
corporations or you know profession or
anything that if there are people who
who felt that because of their early
life conditioning that um that they're
just stuck and their that's their
Destiny and that's their fate and they
really can't do anything about it and
there's no way out
that I would at least hope that uh my
life's experiences and and my life story
can provide a example amongst many
others in in this world and in history
um of the fact that if you have strength
of character if you have a greater
Vision if you have um you know a
willingness to change
that it is possible to break the
conditionings that were placed upon you
against your wishes well so there's a
couple of themes in there that are I
think personally and sociologically
relevant I mean on a on
the we all what would you say are the
beneficiaries and victims of the actions
of the past and I suppose that's true
most proximately with regard to who it
is that you have in your family of birth
and your parents and their they have
their individ in individual
idiosyncrasies and um talents and then
they are also exemplars of the much
broader culture now your father was a
very famous man an extraordinarily
controversial person you know I was
reading the Satanic rituals this morning
and back you know I'm old enough so I
kind of caught the tail end of the Heen
itic 60s you know I'm really a kid of
the 70s and the 70s was where the 60s
went to die so I always say that the 70s
are The Hangover of the 60s yeah that's
exactly right the yeah the drunken
hangover it was a really ugly hangover
yeah that's for sure that's for sure it
it really was and uh you know when I was
18 or 19 I spent a fair bit of time
investigating Alister Crowley and also
your father's works and familiarizing
myself with the dark side of the 1960s
you know looking at how that had
affected the music for example of The
Rolling Stones and the The Vicious
underbelly of the what would you say
Carefree Hedonism Let It All Hang Out
tune in turn on drop out ethos of the
1960s it's like that's all fine boys and
girls but you know there's a pretty dark
shadow that comes along with that and
it's like the shadow of the Marquee
desad for the French Enlightenment and
these aren't the sorts of things that
people like to delve into uh except
carelessly and foolishly that's for sure
and pridefully and you know it was quite
a trip down memory lane in some ways to
take a look at this book today because I
haven't thought about those things in
relationship to the early 60s or the
early' 70s and the late 60s for quite a
long time so you were right in the
middle of this and so what what you're
maybe you could start by telling people
who your father was and then also when
you were born so we can place you
exactly in time and then I think we'll
probably go through your life
autobiographically and and and let you
tell your story so let why don't you
tell everybody who your father was to
begin with okay yeah so first of all you
know I was born in
1963 and uh my father was Anton l so he
was the founder of the Church of Satan
which uh coincided with being the
founder of modern day
Satanism uh as a coherent kind of
organizational uh openly public
Organization for for satanists not that
Satanism didn't exist before but it was
always um you know in secret or was
practiced very differently from the way
my father practiced it um uh let me back
up and clarify something when you were
discussing saying about the Hedonism of
the 60s and um and the dark side and the
Rolling Stones kind of Altamont type
things that were happening then the
interesting thing to understand
about my father and his organization was
that they were a generation older than
the hippie generation and as such they
they were like mostly comprised of the
members were most ly uh people who were
young in the post-war generation of the
50s so so in so in a strange way um you
could consider that the Church of Satan
always considered itself the
counterculture to the counterculture
because we were um my father my father
was really very anti- hippie and um so
this is where it gets complicated
because it doesn't fit into
it doesn't fit into the stereotypical
idea one
has of
Satanism in in in the occult
millu um so it's a little bit
complicated because my father was an
anti occultist actually and he was
really much more of a performer and a
showman and um very mellian of course uh
in in the formation of of the church in
the way that he did it
um so so the
Hedonism that was promoted within the
Church of Satan was something different
than what was going on in the 60s so the
Hedonism within the Church of Satan was
more like I mean it was more like
for I don't know if you recall but in
the 60s there was this phrase don't
trust anybody over 30 right because the
60s was a youth culture generation and
anyone over 30 was considered part of
the establishment don't trust them yet
in the Church of Satan that that that
pretty much summed up a lot a large
percentage of the membership and they
were part you know they were very much a
part of the establishment but in the
sense that you know they were
professionals um and that's they would
go to Church of Satan events to sort of
live up whether it was uh to meet people
that they'd have Liaisons with or
Affairs or what you know whatever it was
really
uh it was really
not it's hard to describe but it was
really not what people imagine and what
people think I mean yes there
was a lot of psychopaths and a lot of
deviant people in the Church of Satan
I'm not going to say there wasn't um but
it but the way that that transpired was
very different than the Let It All Hang
Out kind of attitude of the hippies
so my point is both are problematic both
are not um see my father's attitude was
more like
um he was more like PT Barnum who was an
inspiration to him it's like a sucker is
born every minute and and it's perfectly
logical and and to take advantage of
people that want to be taken advantage
of um as long as long as everybody's
enjoying themselves and um nobody
complains then um you know then but but
but the fact is interestingly he was
anti-drug he was very anti-drug he was a
very Law and Order kind of person I mean
we had friends in the police
department um I have to say something
that I've never said publicly before
either is my teenage years I dated a
policeman who was a friend of my
father's um who was just part of the
patrol that was always in coming in and
out of our house because we needed
protection from vandalism and from uh
attacks on on the house and threats and
uh
so
so he he fell into a different category
than most occultists and as I say he
didn't even consider himself an
occultist he considered himself more of
a
um more of like
a doing some sort of like a social
experiment in a way of of providing that
if if you created a a Doctrine and a
religion that was based on people's
base uh impulses and base desires that
maybe you could take take away the
stigma of of people exercising those
beas desires but the problem with that
is it was entirely mixed with a lot of
neurosis from his own side I mean it was
it was very you could say um postmodern
in his way of of uh approaching Satanism
and and the symbolism of Satan it really
doesn't hold up to scrutiny and academic
study things like that so and certainly
it doesn't hold up it certainly doesn't
hold up in terms of what constitutes a
real religion it's not a real religion
it's just more like
um more like uh you know a private club
basically however this but however I
would say that I I was raised with the
understanding that it was a religion and
I took that very seriously and
then much later in life during the 80s
when there was the satanic panic and
then I felt that it was my religion that
was being under attack but more
importantly was because I had empathy
and compassion for my father and I was
very afraid that he was going to be
framed for something that was not you
know that he was not responsible for and
yet he was utterly incapable of
defending himself utterly
unwilling to defend himself that you
know what I did for that organization
was really for my father it wasn't it
wasn't like and and then subsequently
what grew out of that was a sense of
responsibility like I felt like okay
somebody needs to just uh show up and
show that these people are real people
um that they're not ethereal things that
you can just hurl accusations at and
um because I knew from experience that
the media likes to grab on to Boogeyman
and and make something that is going to
inflame and and uh get people very riled
up and uh and you can sell a lot of
advertising that way and you can also
create a lot of new jobs that way and
it's good for the economy and all kinds
of things like that so I knew that that
that was happening but
um but more
importantly I I thought that uh they
were they were imagining that well this
isn't going to hurt anybody because
there isn't really anything as such as
Satanism anyway so so we can kind of use
this but in fact there were people who
considered themselves that and I thought
well we need to I need to at least be a
placeholder to say this is you know a
real person whose life you're affecting
and because I felt like I had to protect
my father so what I did what I did was
out of necessity and out of love for my
father um and and fear because I had a
son fear that my son would be taken away
from me by child protective services so
fear a mother's
fear uh love for a father and um and
then yet at the same
time uh as all that was going on because
I'm jumping forward to the 80s now with
the satanic Panic per perod as all of
that was going on U my parents were they
weren't they weren't ever legally
married in the first place but they
lived as man and wife so you could say
that they lived as common law marriage
and so they were breaking up and so
there was this immense uh tension
between my two parents and and me
feeling as though I was being pulled
between the both of them two
narcissistic parents both saying you
know either blaming me for being like
the other parent or trying to uh draw
and quarter me saying you know you have
to support me no you have to support me
and so there was a lot happening in my
life at that time in in combination with
what was happening in the country with
this National
hysteria security is top of mind for
many Americans during these crazy times
security for our country security for
our leaders and security for our
families but you're not financially
secure if all your eggs are in one
basket gold and silver are an excellent
way to diversify your savings they're a
hedge against inflation a physical asset
that is in high demand globally through
my friends at Birch gold group you can
own physical gold and silver in a tax
sheltered retirement account that's
right you can diversify an old Ira or
401K for no money out of pocket into an
IRA in gold and silver this is just one
thing you can do today to secure your
family savings text Jordan to
[Music]
9898917350 delve into some of the
characterizations that you touched on in
relationship to your father cuz he's
he's emblematic of a whole wealth of
what would you say like a symbolic
cluster you know you said that well you
described him as narcissistic you
described him as
mellian but you described him as a
showman you said that you know his one
of his Heroes was PT Barnum you
described the What's the phrase there's
a sucker born every minute then you said
something very interesting about that
and this is something that everybody
who's listening and watching should
understand I mean one of the things that
characterizes a Maia valan orientation
towards life is a proclamation which has
an iota of Truth in it which is if
you're stupid enough to let me take
advantage of you if you invite me in to
take advantage of you uh you deserve
everything you have coming to you right
well and you know it's a it's a very
strange thing so let me let me reflect
on that in in a a strange manner so in
the story of Cain and
Abel Cain is very bitter and resentful
because what he's offering to God is not
being accepted his sacrifices are being
rejected and he essentially makes a case
to God that his misery and unhappiness
is a consequence of his failure and God
says back to him no that's not true
you're missing an interv Ving variable
here buddy um you did sacrifice
inappropriately you're not bringing your
best to the table and because of that
you are failing but that's not why
you're miserable you're miserable
because something tempted you when you
were failing it's sin that crouched at
your door and you invited it in and you
let it have its way with you and that's
why you're bitter and miserable and
that's a very different causal sequence
hey now now the reason I'm bringing that
up is because the
constant refrain of the showman Carnival
Barker is and you see this parody for
example or explored in Tom weight's work
and you see it touched on in the work of
people like Robert crumb is that you
know if you're the kind of damn fool who
invites the Predator into your house and
then he eats you it's like well you know
you kind of set yourself up for it and
you had it coming now the the problem
with that is that the Maia Val who you
could think about as a force of divine
Vengeance in that regard ensuring that
those who are foolish get their Just
Desserts also uses that as a
justification for their own predatory
and parasitical activities right well of
course I can take advantage of you
because well first of all you're
probably a thief anyways and you just
hide it with a facade facade of moral
virtue that's what the Marxist claic yes
yes and then the next thing is well if I
accept this story that you're a fool and
so
I'm entitled to uh deliver you what you
deserve then that justifies virtually
anything on my behalf and so now it's a
very complex characterization of your
father but now you also interestingly
enough in the 80s so you would have been
in your 20s at that point despite the
fact that your father had this very
complex character and was toying with
the edges of propriety let's say at
minimum you also felt compelled to rise
to his defense and you did that very
publicly and so I'm very curious like
what how would you you obviously loved
your father and that in itself that's
that I want to clarify that because a
lot of people hold me up as some kind of
poster child for adolescent Rebellion
against parents and in fact I was a
really dutiful daughter I really uh went
to bat for both of my parents and all of
my upbring even though they never came
to to school to defend me when I was
being bullied and picked on I just had
to learn how to fight myself but um yes
I I always uh
felt uh until I was an adult in parted
ways with my father I mean I always felt
that we were buddies that we were really
close and uh yeah I mean obviously I
looked up to him as the you know Jehovah
God kind of archetype except in Satan
form and um which is interesting because
I think that's a lot of how his
followers do look up to him as like a
kind of satanic Jehovah so um and they
treat him in the same way um and uh so
so it is not really that I was such a
rebellious kid I was a very obedient
beautiful daughter and I you know there
was only even though I was left to my
own uh left on my own quite a lot
growing up my um I mean my mother and
both of them made it clear that that
there are only certain rules which is
don't do anything that is going
to drag us into a negative light which I
in hindsight I think is really funny
because as if they didn't do enough
themselves to do that but I couldn't do
for example I didn't have the luxury of
having a drug problem that just couldn't
happen because that would reflect badly
on my parents so that that was something
that you know although they were uh
pretty uh pretty logically open-minded
about if you want to experiment you know
let us know and that kind of pseudo
liberal attitude
however by their behavior and and by
their um by things that my father would
say about really being very anti-drug it
didn't take a a genius to know that he
would not have been happy if I had gone
down that route so I was constantly um
you know keeping myself in check and
being sure that I lived up to what
his what his standards were which was
really idiosyncratic obviously so so so
what I'm trying to say about rebellion
what I'm trying to explain about
rebellion is I was not a rebellious
child in fact I always felt like it was
us our little Clan against the
world and and I and I was very
rebellious against other authority
figures like in school or out in out in
the world um and I was really a scrappy
kind of warrior in that way but I always
felt like there was the core family that
was solid and tight and um and I and I
continued to feel that way until the
split with my father and even and I
would even characterize when I uh
severed ties with my father not as a Act
of rebellion but just as simply
Severance as putting an end that was the
end forever so that wasn't you know
because Rebellion implies a kind of
relationship it implies that that you
know a child will test the limits this
way and then the parent will push back
that way and there will be a give and
take and a give and take I never had any
of that never did any of that I reached
my limit and then there was a Tipping
Point and then I was done and it was a
clean sance and I never went back and I
never it was not even Reb reion it was
just I'm done you've pushed me too far
and I can't even uhhuh yeah okay so so
let me ask you two questions about that
because there's another Paradox about
your father I mean in the Satanic
rituals for example it certainly appears
that he's perfectly willing to harness
let's say um sexual activity for the
purposes of the church and there is an
overlap with a kind of sexual Hedonism
there but you also characterize him as
someone who essentially had a Law and
Order orientation and and and it was
very strict with
regards for example to your own behavior
at at least on the drug side and so
those are very difficult things to bring
together right so you have this MCU
valan person he's narcissistic he's a
real real he's a real showman he's
drawing all sorts of attention to your
family and and he's a celebrator of
what's unacceptable and yet there's an
element of him too that's Al aligned
more with the law and order types and so
and then you also brought into that your
sense yep go
ahead no finish your thought I'll try
well you also brought into there
something else that's interesting which
was you know you were a dutiful person
and you're a initial presumption which I
think is the default presumption of a
daughter is that your primary loyalty
was to your family and that you felt
that your family was anass unit now you
know that is a trick that maav ellian
use with people who are close to them
right they tend to sever their ties to
other people and keep them intensely
focused on what's prox very aware of
that yeah to prize loyalty Above All
Else and so and they use the word
we they use the word we so that you're
dragged into the we yeah well and I
can't see how in some ways how you could
have escaped that as a child right I
mean especially if you're relatively
dutiful in your personality because
you're going to assume especially if
your father's also charismatic your your
primary Allegiance is going to be to him
and so you think you believe that that
was
what motivated your participation as a
high priestess say let's say in the
1980s is that you were still on the side
of your family you still believed that
your father okay so how did the evidence
mount for you that the orientation that
you had in relationship to your father
was of the sort that would eventually
have to be severed like how the hell did
you come about that Revolution that was
a gradual process like most things in
life things don't just really things
don't just happen out of the blue things
don't just happen suddenly there's
leadup there's and and I've always been
a really patient person and I give
people a lot of chances and a lot of
benefit of the doubt and I've
always sometimes stupid so but I've
always tried to see actually the good in
people even
reprehensive
um I've known a lot
of you people who by any normal uh
standards of society would think you
would think that these people are Beyond
The Pale they're totally Psychopathic
and and horrible and you know I mean
that's that's a a matter of uh
psychological analysis that's not for me
to say what their diagnosis are I'm just
saying that by normal standards they
would be seen that way um and yet
because I've known such people in
perfectly normal I I wouldn't say
perfectly because nothing about my life
has been perfectly normal but I mean
I've I've known them as in the same way
that I'm talking to you now just talking
normally and um so I could always see uh
yeah I mean I saw the problems in in
such people including my father um but
in the case of him in particular uh that
so that was a gradual process but but
because I would always say to him what's
the party line what do you want me to
say I I was a a mouthpiece for him but
at the same time because he would just
say like he was so out of touch with
reality would just say crazy things like
you know talk about celebrities and
that's all he cared about was that
people saw him in and entertaining and
exciting and kind of cocktail party
conversation kind of way he really had
no interest or concern
about about you know the phenomena that
was
happening that that were happening in
the country at that time with innocent
people being uh accused of horrible
things it that didn't interest him at
all so so what happened with me is um
you know I I would begin uh kind of
having
to either either I would have to uh you
know push him a little more like say
well I'm not really sure that they're
going to want to talk about Jane
Mansfield and Marilyn Min and things
like and I would say you know but but
you know these people are being accused
of being members that aren't even
members of the Church of St and things
things like this and so anyway what I
had to do because there was a lot of
cogn
cognitive dissidence happening um what I
had to do is be his mouthpiece and yet
uh filter it through my personality
through my
conscience and I had to live with it so
you know I would phrase things in such a
way that according to my personality
what I could live with up to the degree
that I was still promoting his vision
and and it was never about me it was
always and I always held you know held
him up as the uh you know this is I'm
here on behalf of um and so gradually
what happened is some people would start
coming forth to me and telling me about
things about his life that I didn't know
about um people in the public would just
say oh do you know that it would be
horribly embarrassing but they' say well
do you know where this part of the
Satanic Bible came from or do you know
where that really came from and of
course because I lived in a vacuum in a
bubble in my family so I just accepted
and this is the best way for melians who
are narcissistic is to get people to be
very credible Defenders of them is is is
if you if you can uh convince an
innocent
person that all of your facade is
true and you send them forth they will
be very credulous and they will be very
credible and they will seem very
convincing and of course that's the
problem of what I have to live with
today is I still get so many satanists
that come to my website or come to my
social media pages and clueless and say
how can I join you know how can I so
where do I sign up and it's like you
didn't get the memo 30 years ago or over
30 years ago so so the the
disillusionment happened gradually it
wasn't like overnight and then of course
like all like all things that happen
gradually then there's the Tipping Point
then everybody freaks out and they say
well she just blew up over this one
little thing but it wasn't just one
little thing it was an
accumulation of too many things and then
the final straw was when he threatened
my own life when after I had been doing
this for five years on behalf of him all
of these public appearances I had been
taking the um s and I had been
endangering my own life showing up in
studios where there would be huge hordes
of you know Christian evangelists that
really want to take a baseball bat to my
head and you know kill me
um and I have lots of anecdotal stories
about that too how that's that's a
reality um and and then uh so so what
had happened was uh the Tipping Point
was that my husband at that time and I
we were preparing a 25 year anniversary
of the Church of Satan and um and it was
going to be a public performance and uh
there had the the venue but also the
police and the sheriff's department in
Los Angeles had been getting a lot of um
threats and a lot of warnings that if it
was going to go on you know something
really terrible would happen and um and
interestingly enough actually because I
knew Richard Ramirez at the time too
because my husband at the time
and I were considering writing a book
about him that's a whole other subject
uh just tell
people Richard Ramirez was a serial
killer a Serial murderer in Los Angeles
in the 80s um who self-identified as a
Satanist um and he was a follower of my
fathers and uh he somebody that uh you
know the present day Church of Satan
wants to
pretend was there was no connection to
but but here's the thing as I was
beginning to represent the Church of
Satan on a
broader uh level on a broader in a
broader spectrum and there were some
things that began developing in me and
those were realizations and realizations
that if you are a real religion you
can't pick and choose who who is drawn
to that religion I mean there are
Christian murderers too but
each Christian denomination can't just
uh close shop and say well you can't
join because if you are a true religion
you can't you can't uh have that kind of
selectivity religion is something bigger
religion isn't a private club right so
then that brought to mind uh
philosophical questions like uh
philosophical questions like well what
is the meaning of what what purpose does
a religion serve actually then to the
community and if we are supposed to be
this kind of anti-religion or a counter
religion you what purpose does that
serve and and to who and so so it's just
a religion of Anton L's personal friends
well then that's not a religion right so
or but he had different tears he had
like his inner circle and then he had
his circle of friends who in fact were
outside of the Church of Satan
people that he liked to feel like he
could have a kind of uh yeah mauell and
and also Rasputin you know the the
Russian monk Rasputin he was also very
influenced by him so so these were kind
of role models for him that he felt that
he through knowing people in influential
circles whether it was in the
entertainment field or other fields that
um you know that he could have some sort
of influence over them in some way in in
their decision-making things like that
but then he had the Ley the Ley of the
Church of Satan which of course because
he was so in his youth he was very
influenced by the carnival Cary Carney
life you know so the Ley is what we
always refer to as the Rubes those were
the paying
customers the Ley were um to quote my
father he would say they're the stuffing
in the mattress
um you know they're they're what pay the
bills starting a business can be tough
but thanks to Shopify running your
online storefront is easier than ever
Shopify is the global Commerce platform
that helps you sell at every stage of
your business from the launch your
online shop stage all the way to the did
we just hit a million orders stage
Shopify is here to help you grow our
marketing team uses Shopify every day to
sell our merchandise and we love how
easy it is to add more items ship
products and track conversions with
Shopify customiz your online store to
your style with flexible templates and
Powerful tools alongside an endless list
of Integrations and thirdparty apps like
on demand printing accounting and chat
Bots Shopify helps you turn browsers
into buyers with the internet's best
converting checkout up to 36% better
compared to other leading e-commerce
platforms no matter how big you want to
grow Shopify gives you everything you
need to take control and take your
business to the next level sign up for a
$1 per month trial period at shopify.com
jbp all lowercase go to shopify.com jbp
now to grow your business no matter what
stage you're in that's shopify.com
jbp right right so that Carnival that
Carnival Association is extremely
interesting so there's a I'm a real uh
what would you call afficionado of the
early Disney classic animated movies and
I've spent a lot of time for example
lecturing about it walking through the
the story of Pinocchio and there's a
mystery there's a lot of mysteries in
that animated movie which is about the
attempts of someone striving forward to
free themselves from the invisible
strings that control them right because
Pinocchio is a marionette and he's
trying to become a real person well the
first Temptation that he Encounters this
took me a long time to figure out the
first Temptation he encounters is to
become an actor he gets picked up by The
Coachman fun this this Italian character
who's a traveling Carney and he's put on
the stage as a puppet right and the the
Italian Carnival director claims that
he's going to make him a star but
imprisons him essentially and it took me
a long time to understand I thought well
this is so strange because this is a
Hollywood movie and yet actor is put in
an extraordinarily negative light and I
thought actor actor and then it seems
obvious in retrospect but it wasn't to
begin with that well it's a parody of
accomplishment right to be an actor is
to is to have all of the uh what would
you call the trappings of the real thing
not to do any of the work exactly it's
the it's a Persona and there's not well
and you said you know you you're you're
tilting continually towards description
of your father essentially as a Carnival
Barker and you said for example that
when you were trying to work through
some of the deeper philosophical
implications of the accus ations that
were coming your family's way his
insistence constantly was to play up his
association with highle celebrities
right and to become so I mean so so the
the actor issue is it it's a
continuation of the great game idea so
you say well there's a soccer born every
minute it's perfectly reasonable and
even right to pray on the gullible
because they deserve it but then there's
a deeper justification underneath that
which is something like well everything
is a great show anyways right there's
nothing real that's kind of the
postmodern element there's nothing real
everyone who's successful isn't
successful because they've actually
contributed something real they're
successful because their act worked and
so I might as well have an act and your
father was obviously I mean with the
with the carnival surround that that
really becomes tangible because a
carnival is all about taking a break
from the duties and responsibilities of
life and celebrating the orgastic and
the odd and the lustful and the base and
and and there's an attraction of that
Carnival Barker who's often represented
in
literary in literary symbology as a what
would you say an invitation to the
satanic realm right that's why you see
in Stephen King for example and Ray
Bradbury um it's very very or in movies
that use the Trope let's say of the
serial killer is often Terri terrible
things are going on behind the scenes in
a carnival right it's a it's a place of
dark magic and so your father obviously
was part of that world and and is it
safe to say that he believed that it was
all a great show and that he was he was
staging a the okay yeah here's the thing
is I believe that in the beginning he
really believed he really believed that
he
would I think that he really believed
that so-called normal society straight
societ you know
normal uh regular middle class society
that they were corrupt in their way so
I'm sure he had some early life
experiences I'm sure he had early life
experiences that disillusioned him and
caused him to take a a dim view of
society and the double standards and the
corruption and things like this but
here's the thing a lot of people get
that too uh but not everybody thinks
well then I'm going to take revenge and
I'm going to do and I'm going to I'm
going to flip the script and I'm going
to flip the script and I'm going to uh
do it I'm going to do one up on that and
so but I think in the beginning I think
in the beginning
uh with the help of my mother I must say
because my mother don't forget was 50%
of the development of the Church of
Satan as well and she had her own person
ality and she had her own uh con you
know uh makeup from her past and her
family and things like that so
um and she very often was like a balance
to him but sometimes she was also
someone who was pushing him from behind
the scenes too go further go further and
and setting yeah she was his PR agent
she was the administrator of the whole
she built up the Church of Satan in the
administrative sense um so if my father
had not had my mother who was young and
naive and really uh looked up to him
when she first met him and admired his
uh Talent his creative uh abilities and
and uh he was a r onour you know he
could talk for hours and hours and um so
she she didn't mind
taking the behind the scenes position of
um
you know doing all the work of creating
and building up okay so she did the
because that's curious he because a man
like your father given his temperament
highly entrepreneurial highly open
highly creative but also H with that MCU
valion and narcissistic tilt it isn't
obvious at all that he'd be willing to
do something like the administrative
work that would be necessary to build
anything approximating an organization
so your mom did okay but you also
characterized your mom very briefly also
as narcissist istic now you said she was
also young how much of an age Gap was
there 11 11 years okay no no I'm sorry
12 years 12 years okay and how old was
she when he met
her 17 okay okay okay so that explains
something right there right so he's just
about 30 at that point and she's 17 well
he turned 30 right when they met he
turned 30 right when they met and then
couple months later she turned
18 right right and she was drawn to him
because he was magnetic and she but now
you also characterize time well she
doesn't sound like you exactly right
because you said you were dutiful and
you were you know you were actually
striving to be to aim up and you were
trapped in a situation where up looked
like what your father was doing from
within your family but you characterized
your mother as narcissistic so tell me
more about her role and her personality
yes but she was narcissistic in a
different way she was not and and before
I understood more about narcissism and
really did some deep studying about all
the different kinds of narcissists and
different traits that different ones
have I used to think in in just my own
definition is I used
to think of her as a narcissist by
proxy because her narcissistic feed was
in being a martyr to the great
narcissistic
my father she was the Martyr so she had
no time for me she I mean she was an
absentee mother in my life um she passed
off her mother duties onto other people
so my grandparents or people in the
neighborhood other church members my
sister
um she had absolutely no time for me um
and and because I was the only child of
the both of them and I was the last
child so my my sister was born when my
father was very young he was only 21
years old when my sister was born so she
in her formative years she knew a very
different person than the one I was
raised with uh and she actually had
probably a more fun Early Childhood
because it was more a normal kids
childhood you know I mean yeah they had
she always describes it as they had kind
of an Adams
Family existence kind of Adam's family
home they were quirky and they had
unusual pets like tarantulas and snakes
and things like that but that's not as
malignant as inviting Psychopaths
opening your door to the public and
letting you know any Walk of Life come
through and you've got two young
daughters it's like the irresponsibility
Factor
increased in the ensuing years and as my
sister was a teenager I was still a
small child so my sister being
considerably older than me um and as a
teenager she could pretty much handle
herself she didn't have to be uh
although the strange thing is my my
mother used to say that I was allowed to
participate in the rituals because I was
precocious whatever that means um but I
I think that was more of a justification
in my mother's mind that that if she if
she said that that I was more resilient
and more precocious and more mature in
in my uh you know in my dealings with
people because I I actually was as a
child I I was kind of I don't know yeah
Scrappy is the only way I can describe
it because like I would talk back at
some of the members when they would say
I was just being shy or something I was
an introverted child and I still am an
introverted person I think to my my my
basic Baseline is uh leans towards
contemplative activities and and uh
pastimes and and I I tend to be more
thoughtful and think things out so I'm
more introverted in the typ
stereotypical ways so as a child you
know sometimes members would say oh
she's just shy she's she's uh you know
she doesn't have the confidence to talk
and I I would actually confront them and
say I'm not shy I have nothing to say to
you which was true right that's a very
different true because I'd see all these
people I'd see all these adults acting
like blithering idiots you know just
drunk and falling all over the place and
not really I mean I'm not saying they
were participating in orgies and things
like that but they were just gross you
know they just there a lot of them were
just the ones that would come to the
parties and that would party after the
rituals and stuff it was just gross um
and uh so no I didn't have anything to
say to people like that
but to be fair then there were also
other members of the Church of Satan too
who were not like that um who you know
whether they were creative types or they
they lived a different lifestyle from
that kind of uh sneaking around behind
your spouse's back kind of you know
swinger club mentality there were other
people that didn't fall into that
category but um they did not tend to
stay long I have to say they they moved
on actually so I wanted dig into this
characterization of your mother as
martyr because that was a very very
interesting thing well because I'm and
and you characterized that as a
different form of narcissism so there's
a bunch of reasons I want to delve into
that
so see one of
the primary forms that female narcissism
takes is something like the martyrdom of
false compassion right and it's can I
interject something you absolutely can
yes
um it's interesting you say that because
in Buddhism we also you know I mean of
course Buddhism teaches compassion it
teaches that compassion should be should
be you know the foundation from which
all of our activities spring from
however there's also uh very strict
teachings about
about the false understanding of
compassion and in Tibetan Buddhism it's
referred to in the translation is it's
referred to as idiot compassion now
Idiot compassion is when it's
motivated for the wrong reasons it's if
it's either motivated for personal gain
or it's motivated to you know create uh
some favorable response for yourself
maybe you want to look better in other
people's eyes you're doing it for some
reason that's going to actually butress
your ego that's idiot compassion and you
have to really
uh be careful not to do that okay so in
in the story of Adam and Eve right it's
eve who precipitates the fall although
Adam is equally at fault his role in
that particular catastrophe is secondary
but Eve's fundamental I think Eve's
fundamental sin is the idiot compassion
that you just described so so let me
untangle that a bit and you tell me what
you think about it because we're getting
at something very fundamental here like
your father was a showman for the cult
of Lucifer let's say but you're pointing
out very clearly that your mother
enabled and eded that and for her own
Marty reasons okay so she was an enabler
she was a class basic sin well and she
also ignored you which is an interesting
detail and then also in some ways
sacrificed you to the propagation of the
cult now Eve's fundamental sin so you
could imagine what the what the story of
Adam and Eve does is it sets up the
fundamental patterns of masculinity and
femininity and it does that in a very
compacted Manner and I would say
according to the abrahamic Paradigm yes
yes yes yes definitely not according to
all Paradigm no but there's an
interesting overlap with what you just
described and and I'd like to delve into
that and the reason why is be I I just
want to interject the reason why there's
an interesting overlap is because in
essence even a Church of Satan is
abrahamic so yes that would be because
it's it has to by uh by sheer definition
how can you have a Church of Satan if it
isn't in reaction to something that is
you know it is in essence a sect an
abrahamic just yet another offshoot or
SE anti abrahamic religions correct I
understand I understand what you're
saying still but still within that
framework within that framework yes and
as such as such that's what my father
was playing with was flipping the
archetype of okay if if the church says
uh Satan is evil then we're going to
flip it and we're going to say he's good
and then it's just a reversal it's a
role reversal but within that same
Paradigm so I'm only um elucidating on
why what you're about to describe is
under the Paradigm of abrahamic
religions this archetype of or this uh
example of typical masculine typical
feminine but I would disagree that
that's the only way of defining ing
masculine feminine because to my
understanding uh in a more broad sense
there is more of a spectrum so you can
have malignant you can have malignant
feminine you can have malignant feminine
behavior and you can have heroic
feminine Behavior you can have malignant
ma malignant masculine behavior and
heroic masculine behavior and so that's
more like a grid or a spectrum it's not
just this or that now with that uh
understanding because I just wanted to
clarify that now present what you were
going to say in terms of the
relationship between my parents and the
Adam and Eve yeah well there's no like
there's nothing in what you said that
that strikes me as as like uh what would
you say that would motivate any
contention on my part I think the idea
of malignant and positive masculine and
feminine that's yes so let's concentrate
on the malignant element of the feminine
to begin with because you brought up
this issue of idiot compassion and and
it's not just idiot compassion it's it's
something worse you see and this is also
partly how it's portrayed in the story
of Adam and Eve because what Eve
essentially does is Proclaim her ability
to take formulation of the moral order
to herself and then to clutch the
serpent itself to her breast so what
she's doing is proclaiming to herself
and the world that her compassion is so
complete and Godlike that she can even
hearken to the voice of the serpent and
clut and bring that into the Family
Circle right and that's now you can
interject here so that's the ego that's
the ego believing I'm above all this I
can handle it right yeah and a lot of
women
attitude yeah but that's a false
confidence yeah 100% And it it has
cataclysmic consequences but it's very
interesting to delineate that issue of
martyrdom out because you characterized
your mother to begin with that way and
so I want to delve into that because I
want to know from your perspective what
benefit that martyrdom to the cause
conferred upon your mother and why do
you and what now you also said she was
very young when she got tangled up in
this and so but she was also attracted
to your father right I mean there was
some reason that she invited him into
and was and was open to his seductions
let's say okay so what what do you think
your mother gained from teenage okay
excit see he was a musician she he was a
musician he played the organ at uh
various Civic events in San Francisco
but also at certain uh nightclubs
lounges and and bars so in those days
being an organist uh was sort of the
equivalent of being a DJ today I mean
because you would play requests people
would you know drop a buck in your
Fishbowl that's sitting on the Oregon
and they'd request something and so it
was sort of like being a human jukebox
or like a DJ or something so um so that
was kind of an exciting thing for a
teenager who was living actually not in
s she was living not in San Francisco
but in a suburb of San Francisco so to
to a teenage girl it seems like oh I
want to gravitate to the bright lights
and city of San Francisco the big city
because I'm just in Pacifica and that's
kind of a dirt Bowl you know and I want
to get out and I want to I want to
experience some excitement and he seemed
to her like um capable of
delivering
yes yeah okay and so and what was her
upbringing like was she was she what
kind of background did she come from she
was working class she was from a
workingclass family Blue Collar
workingclass family uh her father her
natural father was actually died she
never knew her natural father he died in
Alaska jail an Alaskan jail of liver of
liver failure because he was an Irish
alcoholic and he just drank himself to
death by the age of 36 so she never knew
him and her mother I guess to protect
her from that realization her this this
is kind of what I'm about to say is kind
of The Germ
of how family
lies get promulgated and yeah and
propagate it and and uh and take on
momentum and then once you realize that
that once once a child or a parent
realizes they can get away with that
then they then they just make up many
more lies and this is this is how why I
I often sort of jokingly say that I was
born into
a oh absolutely yeah because I didn't
know I didn't know so much I didn't know
so much so so the first lie was that my
grandmother my Swedish grandmother uh
didn't maybe to protect her daughter
because her daughter was born uh in
those days they used to say it was a
Reconciliation baby apparently the
father would go away and come back and
go away and come back and so it was at a
period of temporary reconciliation that
my grandmother got pregnant with my
mother and then he went away again so um
so so naturally that set up a kind of
psychological uh ambiguity on my
grandmother's part about my mother
because she was the product of this uh
of this uh somebody that that my
grandmother didn't have eventually had
to divorce um but he died actually he
died before she even divorced him I
think I think that's how it happened and
then um so then my
grandmother swedes are very Swedish
women are really strong women and
they're very responsible women and they
have a Lutheran work ethic and this was
something that's passed down to my
mother this Lutheran work ethic but to
make long story short my grandmother um
had these two young daughters and she
moved from Chicago to San Francisco and
um because she thought there would be
better opportunities for work in San
Francisco she got herself a job at the
phone company and she was a single
mother in the 40s raising two little
girls um on her own and it was at the
phone company that she met her um her
next husband who wound up being her
husband for life so uh uh so at the
phone company he was a delivery person
uh I think he delivered bottled water
actually he was a Teamster he was
totally Blue Collar hardworking Teamster
worked 12-hour days and U really solid
salt of the earth kind of guy um liked
baseball but he was second generation
Hungarian so he was really really very
keen on being all American you know
baseball hot dogs everything and um and
uh
so so my grandmother remarried and then
my mother knew that this was her
stepfather he she knew that this wasn't
her natural father but she always really
loved him and so that was it was a good
relationship in that way but in the back
of her mind she always knew that she had
no idea who or she didn't know anything
about her natural father uh so that left
some kind of like a hole in her psyche
which was easily filled then by my
father right got it got it got it okay
okay so let's go into that martyrdom
element okay so now you've set up the
background for of the motivation for
your mother and perhaps described her
the the origins of her susceptibility to
well to the more showy sort of Carnival
character musician right and center of
attention that was your father okay but
but now let's go into what she gained
from this because again you
characterized it as a kind of narcissis
of narcissism of martyrdom and so tell
me tell me how you saw that in your
mother and and how you figured out that
that was going on okay the way I saw it
was uh because of the Dynamics between
her and her mother I always had the
oppression and it was stated explicitly
to me by my mother that she always felt
that her mother really didn't like her
very much and that because one of my
mother's classic things was to tell like
if anything ever bothered me or hurt my
feelings is her Mantra was tough up Zena
things are tough all over at least I
don't beat you like my mother did and
because she would always tell me that
her mother would beat her so hard with a
with in those days a brush you know a
handbrush was bigger they had big Ivory
brushes that that you know could be used
as a weapon actually and she used to
tell me that her mother would you know
spank her and beat her with a hairbrush
until it broke and um so she always hel
she always held that over my head like
I'm being so she she believed that by
not beating me she was actually
indulging me but in fact she was
neglecting me she was just leaving me to
my own resources and not giving me any
structure or no and and the strange
thing which I didn't understand when I
was growing up was in a sense she was
Raising me as a single mother but I was
not aware of that I because I did not
know that my parents were not married
they lied to me about that I always
thought that they were husband and wife
and we lived in separate parts of the
house my mother and I and my sister we
lived on the top floor my father had his
own apartment in the basement so we
lived in a sense like two two floors
apart you know it's a like it would it
would be like if you divided your house
into separate apartments or something so
um so to get back to what was initial
okay Mom what did she gain from this um
so I I believe that the advantage for to
her was she always wanted her mother and
her
stepfather she always wanted to have
their love and their approval and their
their I think I think she wanted that in
her mother's eyes that she would be
regarded as someone important
and by aligning herself with this kind
of flamboyant Entertainer man
um and the weird thing was was even as
the Church of Satan was developing she
concealed so much from her mother about
what was going on and she they didn't
for example the her parents weren't
allowed to visit our home unless it was
really organized and planned and like it
was there was no just dropping by nobody
just none of none of the family members
just dropped by that just wasn't allowed
um and so even as the Church of Satan
was developing and there were uh you
know like I said my father had different
factions of the Church of Satan where he
had his celebrity friends and his Pro
you know import so-called important
people that he fraternized with that
were he considered his friends but not
necessarily members of the Church of
Satan although they might have been
honorary members or just kind of de
facto members but they were not the
people who chose to pay for a card
carrying membership you know so those
people I think she really hoped that she
from her own mother that she would get
some sort of respect respect I mean
respect is a a common motivation in
narcissism that people feel like they
aren't appreciated enough they want
respect they want to uh is it respect do
you think or attention validation H is
it respect or
attention there's a difference um
definitely attention but I I don't think
she want in her case with the Dynamics
between her and her mother I don't think
it was attention I just think she wanted
finally for her mother to think that she
was worth worthy or okay got it well
that makes well if her mother was toring
about her initial validity because she
was the product of a sexual Union that
was ambiguous in its fundamental nature
then you could imagine that that Dynamic
would play out in the background for
your mother like constantly well
possibly throughout her life and so
definitely and and even when she tried
like uh to get close to her mother I
mean she did eventually get close to her
mother in her in her senior years but I
can say that I even felt the Fallout and
the sort of chain effect chain reaction
of my
grandmother's uh weird attitude about my
mother and probably of my mother's
choices in life because I don't think
even though they tolerated my father I
don't think they were thrilled about her
choice in in marrying him although they
tolerated him and and yeah when he could
come to the holiday dinner with stories
about his friendship with Sammy Davis Jr
then oh my grandfather loved that
because you know he liked those kinds of
entertainers and things but but was sort
of superficial it was rather superficial
so but I felt myself I felt from my
grandmother a kind of judgmental
attitude about me like because I was the
product I was the product of my mother
you know right so so whatever ambiguous
feeling she had about her own
daughter it then continued on to me as
well right right okay so let's go into
the 80s now and when you really decided
to take up mantle now you've laid the
groundwork for that you said that you
were a dutiful person you said that your
it was in your father's interest and
your mother's too to have someone who
was innocent and actually aiming up and
a believer in the moral propriety of the
Enterprise defend them and you happen to
be as far as I can tell you happen to be
the choice for that role and so you
played the role of high priestess for
how many
years five five years okay so so so tell
me what that meant for you like there's
the Priestess element and then there's
the family spokesperson element and then
there's the the next element would be
what the consequences were for you of
playing that role let's say and then
also your disillusionment and move and
movement onward to a different way of
conceptualizing the world so let's start
with well let's start with what you
actually did like what did it mean to
have that role for 5 years that's what I
had to figure out I because it just
happened suddenly I had to figure out
what does it because in my mind my
mother was the high priestess but she
had left so there was a vacancy there
wasn't and and occasionally actually my
sister too served in that in that role
when she was lecturing or um my father
dispatched her to Amsterdam to be the um
to be sort of the spokesperson and the
one to oversee and kind of keep an eye
on what was going on in the
European uh Church of Satan so so in
that capacity then my sister also was
High Priestess in in like in those days
in that way in those capacities um uh
yeah but in my mind my mother was the
only High Priestess and I had to think
well because I I was a single mother at
that time and I was not in a position to
and I was also wor you know I was
working in hospitals and Law Offices no
I think at that time I was working at
UCSF oh I was working at UC Davis in
environmental health and safety so I had
full-time I had a full-time schedule on
my on my plate being a single mother uh
what was most needed was to do
interviews cuz he told me he didn't have
anybody I mean the Church of Satan was
sort of more abundant at that point um
there there had been a of schisms in the
70s and and that left uh my father
really in a deep state of very dark
depression really malignant black black
dark depression and um agoraphobia and
he had locked him he just sequestered
himself into his home and would only go
to very select safe places in public but
not he was not doing any any interviews
anymore and he did not want to to
confront these allegations he his
attitude was he'll just wait till it
blows over but you know not just me but
everybody thought well this isn't
anything this is pretty extreme this
isn't going to blow over in a week or so
this is this is snowballing and
continuing and to get bigger and bigger
so
um so I had to I had to uh kind of
parachute I had to parachute into the
role of par you know paratroop into the
role of high priestess and I had to
figure it out on my own as I went along
and then that's when I as I said I
started having realizations of like well
what does it mean to be a religion and
what is religion I started doing a lot
of my own uh self- research and and um
looking into certain things but but
aside from that experience was beginning
to open my eyes to certain things and
what had happened was because my mother
left my
father you know I got to back up because
you said well it was to my mother and
father's advantage to have me doing this
but no not exactly it was to my father's
advantage to have me doing this my
mother having left she was trying to
pull me out of doing that and she was
convincing me she every time I would
talk to her she was hanging me about
don't care about anybody else you
shouldn't be doing this and you know and
like I need your support and if you're
doing this for him then how can I expect
you to be supporting me during this
divorce you know thing and so it was
very uh stressful for me being pulled at
all sides and she was actually telling
me don't care about anyone because I was
beginning to develop what in Buddhism is
called bti which is a feeling of um a
realization that compassion compassion
can't be just for a select few special
people people compassion actually
broadens and it actually uh you begin to
to develop and attain a certain level it
was it was just like the beginning
stages when I began cognizing that hey
something is really seriously wrong here
because there's innocent people out
there that are not even satanists that
have never even heard of such a thing
they haven't even heard of such a thing
called Satanism and yet you know their
neighbors are calling them into the FBI
and the police and stuff and it's just
ruining people's lives Part of That
Daycare Witch Hunt the the satanic death
ritual the MCM Martin preschool case was
up to that point the hugest waste of
time and money in in US history devoted
to did you ever read Satan Silence by
any chance do you know that book Satan
silence no oh well it was written by a
lawyer and social worker and it's the
best account that I've ever read by a
large margin of the satanic daycare
panic in the 1980s it's an amazing book
Satan's silence yeah okay so you are T
okay so I get the picture more
thoroughly because that was an
unbelievably Widespread Panic right and
it lasted for quite a while and so and
you were trying to okay so let me ask
you a question about that now you know
the dark side of this potentially is
that if you're called upon to be a
spokesperson in a time like that there's
also a lot of attention drawn to you and
you know you pointed out that your
mother was certainly willing to play the
role of martyr to seek attention and to
seek respect and you know you said that
you were a pretty dutiful person and
that you had a job and that this role of
spokesperson was dropped on you and that
you paid an emotional price because you
were torn between your parents but on
retrospect in retrospect you've
obviously done a lot of thinking about
that do you believe that there was any
contamination of your motivation by a
desire for public attention or anything
like that because you had the spotlight
put on you that could be easy to
perceive but the simple answer is
everything was happening so fast I
didn't have time to even think
about as as everything took off I didn't
have time to even think about and and
and in fact even the few times that I
did think oh well maybe this can maybe
this could be turned into an advantage I
very quickly learned that no in fact
it's not an advantage because I had had
seven years of theater training for
example acting and and I wanted to go
into the Arts I just wanted to have a
career in the Arts some way and I wasn't
sure in which field I hadn't decided yet
but as a single mother the only the only
uh vocation the only the only branch of
the Arts that I could afford to pay for
myself with my solitary nobody was
helping me I had no uh financial support
from my family or certainly not from the
father of my son uh no it was all to me
was the only thing I could do was take
um drama drama courses and coaching and
for example City College had free
tuition in those days so I had to kind
of piece together an education and yeah
I mean some of my friends at that time
that were in my acting classes they said
well maybe you can use it to your
advantage and uh but the problem the
problem was it became super clear to me
immediately medely that no it this is
done it's finished I I can't because
because of the religiously motivated uh
hysteria that was happening then if I
went to uh for example I had some
friends that would set up um auditions
for me who knew who knew the casting
agents and so so they
knew you know of course in America
you're not allowed to to state your
reason why you're discriminating against
someone but but because I because
through either um acting coach or or
friends who knew casting agents or
something so I'd go on an interview but
but the but the casting person would say
we're not going to give any money to the
Satanist are you crazy and we can't be
Associated we can't be associated with
this it was like
um uh you know being an Untouchable and
then that got worse it was not only it
was not only um
the professionally that that I realized
okay now I am too branded I am so I am
so much of an identity and I am known
too much I am too branded I can never
just play a role that's never going to
happen I can't be like a versatile
actress that can play a cow cowgirl one
year or not that I want to but I'm just
saying hypothetically that you know I I
couldn't play a role of like a baseball
mom or something like it's just not
going to happen
because because word would spread first
of all my name my name because not at
that time not many people had that last
name Le and then it that would um ring
alarm ring alarm Bells um and then then
just physically I was physically known
and branded that way now the now the
Paradox is paradox is there were people
the Church of Satan actually began to to
the membership began to grow because of
my being out there so it created a new
upsurge in membership um and my father
realizing this this is kind of a funny
detail my father realizing that I was
actually generating more income for him
and more membership um I remember he
told me once that because I was doing
such a good job representing him and
that there were new members coming in
that he was going to uh that he would
actually pay me uh I think 25% of all
new memberships that come through that
actually mention that they've seen me
and wrote to to join so so what's funny
is he did that for the first three three
memberships so I got like at that time I
got
$75 because at that time memberships
were
$100 and so I got
$25 for three and then it never happened
again
never happened oh yeah so that was one
of those pieces of information yeah yeah
it was a gesture that was to dangle the
carrot and make me think oh well maybe
you know but then you know that dropped
out and not that I was doing it for the
money but I thought for the first time
in my life I thought oh my father's
actually doing something for me to help
me and and he's actually acknowledging
my contribution to what I'm doing for
his organization but it didn't last it
didn't last
um and then that was that and you asked
me something else about um well so so
here I want to clarify yeah because of
the new upsurge of
membership here again um my father would
Cherry Picked the people that he felt
like well these people are in a category
of movers and shakers you know they're
they're kind of like in the new Punk
scene and you know he was an old for at
that point so he thought well this will
you know
maybe they'll boost my ratings with the
you know with the cool kids or and so um
so there was there was a new upsurge in
what and in the membership of what he
would call the Rubes but then there was
also a new upsurge in what he
cherry-picked as his little Inner Circle
and that that was of these new kind of
uh you know hipster kind of
edgy um Punky or whatever you know just
just um I wouldn't even know how to
describe them by today's standards but
but the interesting thing is they they
always claim well well she just didn't
know how to use it to her advantage and
what they mean by that what do you know
what they mean by that no please please
elucidate what they mean by that is I
just wasn't mailan enough I just wasn't
mercenary enough right right so that's a
been more I yeah I should have been more
Blackheart I should have been just more
misanthropic I should have just been
more just plow over everybody and and
just create my own create my own well
you had the opportunity there to do that
apparently you know because you were
driving membership you could have you
could have definitely capitalized on
that not only did I have the opportunity
to do that I realized the power in that
but I was as I said everything was
happening so fast I was so swept up in
in it was just extremely it was an
extremely chaotic time in my life and
for for the country that was
experiencing that that particular
satanic Panic phenomenon however then
fast forward many many years later like
about 15 or 20 I can't remember when
this happened but well after I became a
Buddhist um and I was meditating and in
Buddhism they call the well really the
meditation session itself is the
meditation session but anything outside
of the designated meditation session is
referred to postm meditation postm
meditation can be any time in your
ordinary daily routine but in this case
what I'm going to refer to is the
immediate postm meditation because very
often in the immediate postm meditation
phase is where things come to you where
realization comes to you where little
Sparks of I'm not going to say
Enlightenment cuz Enlightenment is a big
thing but the but like you could say are
little steps in the path to realization
and
understanding and knowing so so the
realization that I
had was true
power is knowing what you're capable
of knowing how dangerous you could
be and
refraining right right right of course
of course refraining
refraining because I knew that I could
mobilize people and there were times
where there were interviews um in fact
the very last interview I did that in my
mind I designated I I knew in my mind
this is going to be it this is going to
be the last one because I ended on a
good
note but it was not without a
battle because the last interview I did
which was
for uh a a Sunday morning religion show
in Los Angeles hosted by Tony Valdez who
was a very he was a very religious
conscientious uh journalist unlike many
journalists as you know um he actually
did have a conscience and he was a
really truly kind-hearted
person uh a very open-minded person and
um one of his colleagues had done an
interview with me like uh maybe a month
or a couple of weeks prior to that and
um her name was Christina Gonzalez and
one thing that I made very clear was
because I'm a huge animal lover I love
animals and and in my formative years
because I I was uh not properly
socialized my only companions were
animals cats and dogs and and the and
the odd animals that we had in our home
a cppy Bea a
lion a mouse and a tarantula all the
crazy strange living happily
together somewhat happily yeah um but I
did not have human friends that of my
own you know I was not properly
socialized so um I'm I'm I'm still very
uh close to the Animal Kingdom so what I
told Christina Gonzalez was I said
I really didn't even want to do any more
interviews I I had felt that I knew at
that point that I was leaving the Church
of Satan that was like sometime in March
or April and um I had already told my
father that I was leaving and um and yet
um I my beautiful nature and I felt
responsible and she said she was telling
me about a new law that was going to be
passed by Los Angeles Animal Control
about um prosecu
religions that practice animal sacrifice
such as santoria and Satanism and they
were bunching it together but I told her
yeah but Satanism doesn't practice
animal sacrifice we don't and we that's
a fact we don't I mean at least Levan
Satanism if other satanists do that's
not what I was representing I was
representing my father's
organization and so she she convinced me
that um I really needed to do this then
you know to be a voice against this law
that was going going to be passed about
Prosecuting people for animal sacrifice
and I said yeah but it's it's kind of a
contentious thing for me because
personally I do not agree with you know
it was the problem was I do not believe
animals should be sacrificed and it's in
fact other religions that do even even
conventional religions that do sacrifice
animals uh or do kill animals in a
ritualistic way so um specifically I'm
talking about abrahamic religions that
that they their meat in a certain way
they do prayers they do uh certain
ritual this has to be a specific ritual
to to slaughter the animal so um so
anyway she did she convinced me to do it
but but I did it under the condition I
said the thing that has been disturbing
me the most being an animal lover
is you know they're talking about animal
sock sacrifice all the time and they
always plaster my face side by side with
dead animals and this this really is uh
beginning to take its toll on my psyche
it actually really is beginning to wear
me down uh in terms of my my mental
equilibrium
because the animals at that point
were being raised in a misanthropic
household at that point animals were
more important to me even than most
humans honestly so um so you know she
promised me that however immediately as
I watched the news broadcast cast they
did it they spliced it and they eded it
with a dead cat and I got a me and I I I
was right really on the verge of a
nervous breakdown um classic classic
whatever uh whatever the term is for
nervous H well it sounds like well you
had enough going on in your life to tilt
you toward something like post-traumatic
stress disorder like that's just too
much all of that I've been diagnosed
that in the most complex ways because it
wasn't only it wasn't only that that
caused me that it was things in my early
life and things subsequently even after
um so yeah that's been something that
I've constantly been working on so
um this is in relation to what I was
explaining to you about that I know what
my power is I know that I can Miz people
I know that I can inspire people to
action and I
also and I had that opportunity I I made
a threat to them and I said if you don't
make a public retraction by the next
news show that that that the Church of
Satan does not condone and does not
support animal sacrifice then I will
have 200 angry satanists on your studio
doorstep picketing and I'm going to
contact all the other local news
stations to cover it and I threatened
them with that and um they did it you
know they did the
retraction but
this is what I'm getting to to my last
interview Tony Valdez who was a really
kindhearted person um he reached out to
me and he um actually said you know I
feel for you I see that you're under a
lot of pressure and that you've been
wrongly accused of things that you have
that you have nothing to do with um and
he he actually said how because he was
from the same network I think it was uh
honestly I can't remember which network
it was but it was local Los Angeles
Network and he saidh how can I how can I
make it up to you he Saidi have some I
have some little bits of authority he
says I can't do a lot but he said I do I
have a Sunday Morning Show and I thought
well that's great that's great and and I
accepted it and it was actually really
nice and it was the first time anyone
ever let me speak without being
interrupted and uh and he was thoughtful
and kind and interestingly even in that
very last
interview there was kind of a uh uh
premonition of things to come because he
made the comment I see he said something
like I see a lot of in what you're
saying that sounds almost like
Buddhism and I don't know where that
came from but in fact that was where my
path ultimately went so it's kind of
interesting um so the the point is you
know realizing what you what your power
the true power is
knowing that knowing what you could do
and knowing that you can refrain you can
make a choice and you can refrain and I
have chosen this the uh this interview
we're doing today is an exception to the
rule I don't do any interviews anymore
about this topic why do you make an
exception why do you make an exception
because I felt because I felt that you
well first of all you're an educated
person and you're you're a Psy clinical
psychologist so you're approaching it
from a different perspective than just a
um than just a normal podcaster who
wants to get attention or or just some
other uh journalist who wants to do it
for puant interest because like I get a
lot of I get a lot of people who are
pro- satanic that want to interview me
and they they want to make it seem like
what was just fun in games right wasn't
it just fun because all they all all of
them wanted to jump on the media
bandwagon and after I left I left a void
and then all these kind of hipster types
in the Church of Satan that were my
father's new Inner Circle well then they
were all eager to just jump on that
bandwagon they wanted the media
attention but what they didn't get they
didn't get it I didn't do it for the
attention I did it for my father because
he was my blood father he wasn't you
know that those people were just doing
it because they they thought I'm going
to cash in on this too
and I'm going to get my face on on Med
on these mainstream media things so let
me ask you a closing question it's a
complicated one so you've alluded to two
things as the pathway out of the mess
that you were in well until you left the
church in the 80s the the first thing
you talked about was the fact that you
increasingly become a became aware that
things weren't as they had been
described and that there were things
going on in your private life of your
family and then in the church itself
that were violating the Integrity of
your conscience and you said that was an
incremental process across time and so I
would say that that was the effect of
conscience on you accumulating across
time but there's another element too
which we haven't spoken about we won't
be able to delve into it deeply there
was also something that was attracting
you forward and that was what manifested
itself eventually as the realization of
this Buddhist path that was an
alternative for you to the structure
that you had inhabited within this
within the family and within the church
and so can you describe the dynamic
between your realization that there were
nefarious things of foot and also this
new path that you saw as as good as an
alternative making itself manifest
because those things were kind of
happening in parallel and so we didn't
elaborate much on the Buddhist call
let's say as a as a positive way out
that honestly that would take a lot more
descri know well we may talk about that
more wire side e we because we could
delve into that more but but I know that
I'm asking you to compress a lot but I
would like it isn't only that you saw
that things were wrong with what you
were tangled up with you also started to
become aware of a different pathway
forward so what maybe you could just
describe for us what it was that was
calling to you do you think so I was
developing I was developing a kind of
broader compassion for people that I
didn't even know strangers you know
people that I would hear about that were
um being subjected to accusations that
uh that was ruining innocent people's
lives not just our own membership
population that was being affected by
this that was one
side but then I was still you know like
I said these things don't just happen
like a flip of a switch they don't
happen overnight so so the irony is
uh because I was raised as a Satanist
and because I was raised with the idea
of um you know Revenge Revenge and if
somebody does something to you I mean my
my father wrote it in the Satanic Bible
uh if someone Smite you on One Cheek
smash them in the other don't turn the
other cheek you smash them in the other
um you retal alate you get revenge and
um if you teach this to your
children and you're not kind and
compassionate to your own children and
you do something that jeopardizes their
life again and again but then at one
time that is really very precise and
very
clear what do you expect you know what
do you expect do you think that you've
taught retaliation you've taught Revenge
you don't expect that that's going to
then come your way too if that's what
your message has been all through the
development of your child so I honestly
felt when I left the Church of
Satan um anger hurt I mean I went
through all the Myriad
emotions uh and it took me a very long
time to uh sort out all of my emotions
but my immediate in stinct was I'm going
to be a a damn worse Satanist than you
can even imagine to my father you know
and um and I thought not only am I going
to sever our ties with you and I'm going
to look into the origins of all the lies
that you've said and I'm going to look
into the origins of even uh terminology
and jargon that you use and for example
in the Satanic Bible he's got a list of
gods and and demons and things that he
considers satanic but but that's
ridiculous because so many of those have
nothing to do with Satanism and it's
just his his uh misinterpretation I
would say of um really what he was doing
is he was taking a Christian idea of
deities such as uh Ki the Hindu K or the
Egyptian deity of set he was taking a
christianized interpretation of these
deities and just again inverting it and
saying I'll satanized it I'll make it
all about Satan then so then I went on
my own journey to look into the origins
of these things and what is the reality
of uh a lot of the things that I was not
only raised to believe but even my own
baptism certain uh entities that were
invoked during my
baptism and um and uh my initial thought
was you know okay you've done this now
to yourself and you deserve everything
you're going to get too just in the same
way that he his attitude was you know if
a sucker if if a sucker lets you do
something then they deserve anything
they get so that was what I was taught
so I carried out that his message onto
himself and how I did that that's a
whole other uh that's a whole other can
of worms that I don't have time to get
into today but um but but ultimately
after I
completed a
certain ritual that spanned over three
consecutive days and then the fourth day
I sealed it um and after I sealed that
ritual and then I didn't look at it
again um then then I I actually
physically sealed it in a contained uh
uh in a container and I didn't look at
it again uh except for only one precise
day a year that I had chosen to kind of
reinforce it each year on one particular
precise day and that that was a ceremony
that you used to sever yourself from the
church is am am I understanding that
properly or or was this in relationship
in fact No in fact my my ritual that I
severed from the church was in April of
90 on vurus no which was the the
anniversary of the founding of the
Church of Satan that was the date that I
chose to ritualistically sever myself
from the Church of Satan this what I'm
referring to was a malediction it was
actually a curse and on on your father
and the church yes yes and on the name
Le and so um and so U that came many
months later I had to first get myself
to safety to a safe place which was
Vienna
uh that's why I left the country um uh
and my and my intention was to leave
permanently which I have um but
interestingly I moved to a country sight
unseen it was a very stressful time for
me because not many people I mean I was
literally a refugee but I I didn't have
I didn't have the um legal status of a
refugee but I was literally seeking
Refuge away from my insane family away
from my insane country away from all the
insanity that I had been experiencing
and once I got to a safe place then um
and once I was able to to gain some
sense of mental equilibrium then I um I
I I don't know why I was inspired on
this one particular day except for that
it was coming near to Halloween but I I
don't think that particular particularly
had anything to do with it but yes so I
I did this uh ritual that was uh it took
three days to complete and the fourth
day to
seal so then after that ritual as I said
then I sealed it away didn't think about
it I only allowed myself one one day a
year in which I would reopen it and kind
of reinforce it um because I thought
okay he always said if someone Smite you
on one sheet smash them on the other if
your father if your father admits to you
over the phone that he actually sent
someone after
you well I didn't send a Hitman to him I
didn't send physical Hitman after him
but I did take matters into my own hands
magically how did you reconcile that
with well I mean you you've gone on a
journey down the Buddhist path which is
by the way for everyone listening and
and watching that is something that I'm
going to delve into more um on The Daily
wire side of this interview so some more
autobiographical details and and more of
the positive development of this journey
I'll close with this like how did you
reconcile
that highly tempted tilt towards
Vengeance let's say that you sealed with
that ritual how did how did you or do
you now reconcile that with the emphasis
on compassion that you've been
developing as a practitioner of Buddhism
yeah quite simply because I was not a
Buddhist yet and I was fresh I was fresh
fresh out of the Church of Satan but
just because you have just freshly
stepped out of a mindset it doesn't mean
that that mindset has just miraculously
evaporated evaporated uh so so this was
this was in in my understanding this was
in keeping with the satanic Doctrine
right so you were Stiller within that
framework correct I had not yet I had
not yet
dropped all of the belief in that whole
system because that's too that was too
deeply ingrained so that took a lot more
time over the years over the ensuing
years but in the following but in the
following couple of years I actually
began to because I thought well okay
maybe I should look into some compromise
Alternatives different different
spiritual paths
whether you know European uh paganism or
or even Tantra Indian uh viic Tantra um
uh different spiritual paths that I was
uh exploring and researching and and
trying out in practice through prayers
and rituals and things like that so I
was I was beginning a path of
exploration right and as as an outgrowth
of the path of exploration then I began
realizing
saying the satanic way of life is not
sustainable it just is not you know it's
not it is self-destruct self-devouring
yes yes it's
self-destructive I mean even if even if
you think well well I'll just use it for
because the whole point of Satanism is
exaltation of the ego that is at the
core of the doctrine is exaltation of
the ego allow your ego to make the
decisions do what your ego wants and
just go with it and you'll feel better
you'll have no guilt but the problem is
the ego is also a false construct and
it's it's also uh it will trick you and
you'll do things that will
then you know uh it will rioch will like
Boomerang back onto you so well we can
talk more about that issue of
sustainability too that's realiz sort of
logically logically I began realizing no
this is not a aable way of life and
actually it's so malignant that it it
eats into it it erodes your health even
it erodes your soul your physical health
yeah got it okay well um for everybody
watching and listening we're going to
continue this conversation I think I'll
delve more into the Redemptive pathway
uh I I'm very interested in how Zena put
herself back together she made a very
astute observation here at the end you
made a very stute observation which is
be you know when the Israelites leave
the Pharaoh they're in the desert for
three generations and the reason for
that is as you pointed out just because
you escaped from something doesn't mean
you're now where you should be now
you're lost and that might be better
than being under the thumb of a tyrant
but you're still
lost being lost is actually a blessing
being lost is where you need to be
because you need to get so you need to
be so down you need to lose everything
before you can realize what you really
are and what is really there at the core
that's exactly what we'll talk about can
be a blessing yep right got it got it
we'll delve into that so for all of you
watching and listening well thank you
first for your time and attention thank
you very much for being so forthright
and for agreeing to do this uh there's
like we barely scratched the surface you
know but I and and that's too bad
because there's a lot more that could
have been explored productively but
we'll do some more of this on the daily
wire side and and uh pleasure to meet
you and it's quite remarkable really
that you're still standing as far as I'm
concerned so you know congratulations on
that I'm more than standing yeah yeah
yeah yeah well I want to talk about
standing but I'm very I'm I'm very
thriving joyful joyfully joyfully
standing well great great that's
remarkable so we better on the daily wi
side maybe we'll we'll I'd like to find
out how you managed that so everybody if
you're interested in continuing that's
where we'll do it and again Zena thank
you very much for agreeing to do this
today well thank you too many blessings
to you
[Music]